# Spherocylinder mesh generation

Cesar L. Pastrana, 2022 (c)

This script wraps different codes to generate a spherocylinder mesh in the appropiate format to be used with the `shape` program


## Description

The software generates a spherocylinder with vertices aligned circumferentially. Two hemispherical caps are generated by means of Monte Carlo energy minimization, where repulsive potential between particles is considered. 
The spherocylinder is oriented along the $$z$$ axis and the minimum of the main body is located at $$z=0$$. This configuration is required by `shape` to determine the helical path.


## Execution

The script is executed as: 

```
python3 genspherocyl.py r L n
```
where `r` is the radius of the tube, `l` is the length and `n` is the desired number of particles of the main body, i.e, caps excluded of the counting. The generation of the caps migth take a while. During the exeuction of the script, the number of particles on the caps is printed on the screen. This number can also be found in the `spherocylinder.log` file. We need the indicated number to be included in the `N_CAP` variable of the `params.conf` file.

The execution of the script generates the files `init_coords.dat` and `mesh.dat` located in the `out_mesh` folder. These files contain the position of the vertices and the ensuing triangulation and are ready to be used with `shape`.


### Dependencies
- Python3 and the packages numpy, subprocess and sys
- The generation of the mesh relies on the Advancing Front Surface Reconstruction algorithm from the [CGAL](https://doc.cgal.org/latest/Advancing_front_surface_reconstruction/index.html) library.

